README.md, before:

# QUOI
The app to use when ask yourself « Quoi  » !

## About
This Flask app utilizes the [Collins Dictionary API](https://www.collinsdictionary.com/api/) to retrieve information from the Collins server via HTTP calls. Once the API call is made, the app returns this information to the [frontend React app](https://github.com/kpatenio/quoi-react-app).

For more information about this project's history and/or progress, see the wiki [here](https://github.com/kpatenio/QUOI/wiki).

## Requirements
Virtual environments are set up on my local computer, each with different modules installed via `pip`. To run the server on your own local environment, you must have the following:
- `Python 3.7`
- `Flask (>= 1.1.1)`
- `Flask-Cors (>= 3.0.8)`

Note that `Python 3.7` is needed in order to utilize this version's [Data Class feature](https://docs.python.org/3/library/dataclasses.html).

### Using virtual environments
Optionally, you may create your own virtual environments. This is recommended if you want to isolate this app's Python packages from your own. You will need to install the required packages (via `pip 3` or `pip3.7`) within a `venv` in order to run the app locally! [The official documentation (Python 3.7)](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html) is your best resource.

I use `venv`, which is officially supported and found in Python 3.6 and Python 3.7 standard libraries. Thus, for the rest of this README, I will refer to `venv`. You are free to use other libraries such as `virtualenv` and`pipenv`. ([Don't know the difference? Look at this cool SO answer here!](https://stackoverflow.com/a/41573588))

**Commands found in this section will only work if you are using Linux (Ubuntu) and `apt`)**.

#### Downloading `venv`s
`Python 3.x` usually comes with `venv` support. However, if you are unable to use and create `venv`s for some reason, you may need to install `venv` packages separately.

If you only have Python 3.7 installed:
```
sudo apt install python3-venv
```

If you have multiple versions of Python already installed, you will need to specify a version explicitly:
```
sudo apt install python3.7-venv
```

#### Creating `venv`s
Note that newly created `venv`s will be created at the current path you are in.

If you only have Python 3.7 installed:
```
python3 -m venv <pick a name for your venv>
```

If you have multiple versions of Python already installed, you will need to specify a version explicitly:
```
python3.7 -m venv <pick a name for your venv>
```

#### Enabling a `venv`:

```
. <name of your venv>/bin/activate
```

Alternatively, you may run:
```
source <name of your venv>/bin/activate
```

#### Disabling a `venv`:
```
deactivate
```

### Docker
Using Docker would be the preferred way to containerize this app, serving as a better alternative to `venv`s. However, I currently do not have Docker setup. This section is in my TODO list!

## Running the Server
At the moment, the server can only be run by executing the `app.py` file with your Python interpreter. Note that using `flask run` does not currently work!

### Setup with only Python 3.7 installed
If you are using Windows:
```
py app.py
```

If you are using unix:
```
python app.py
```

Note: if you wish to use a `venv`, make sure you activate it first before running the commands above!

### Setup with multiple versions of Python installed
If you are using Windows:
```
py -3.7 app.py
```

If you are using unix:
```
python3.7 app.py
```
Note: if you wish to use a `venv`, make sure you activate it first before running the commands above!

### Localhost
Considering that the app is not yet deployed, the server will temporarily be hosted manually at `http://127.0.0.1:5000/`. This means that `quoi-react-app` is heavily dependent on this app being run at localhost.

Commit message:

updated .gitignore + readme && added requirements.txt

README.md, after:

# QUOI
The app to use when ask yourself « Quoi  » !

## About
This Flask app utilizes the [Collins Dictionary API](https://www.collinsdictionary.com/api/) to retrieve information from the Collins server via HTTP calls. Once the API call is made, the app returns this information to the [frontend React app](https://github.com/kpatenio/quoi-react-app).

For more information about this project's history and/or progress, see the wiki [here](https://github.com/kpatenio/QUOI/wiki).

## Requirements
Python `3.6` or later is required to run this app. The file `requirements.txt` contains all Python modules that must be installed via `pip`. To install all these dependencies, run:
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
The following modules will be found within this file:
- `Flask (>= 1.1.1)`
- `Flask-Cors (>= 3.0.8)`
- `requests (latest version)`

### Using virtual environments
Optionally, you may create your own virtual environments. This is recommended if you want to isolate this app's Python packages from your own. You will need to install the required packages (via `pip 3` or `pip3.7`) within a `venv` in order to run the app locally! [The official documentation (Python 3.7)](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html) is your best resource.

I use `venv`, which is officially supported and found in Python 3.6 and Python 3.7 standard libraries. Thus, for the rest of this README, I will refer to `venv`. You are free to use other libraries such as `virtualenv` and`pipenv`. ([Don't know the difference? Look at this cool SO answer here!](https://stackoverflow.com/a/41573588))

**Commands found in this section will only work if you are using Linux (Ubuntu) and `apt`)**.

#### Downloading `venv`s
`Python 3.x` usually comes with `venv` support. However, if you are unable to use and create `venv`s for some reason, you may need to install `venv` packages separately.

(Ubuntu) If you only have Python 3.7 installed:
```
sudo apt install python3-venv
```

If you have multiple versions of Python already installed, you will need to specify a version explicitly:
```
sudo apt install python3.7-venv
```

#### Creating `venv`s
Note that newly created `venv`s will be created at the current path you are in.

If you only have Python 3.3+ installed:
```
python3 -m venv <pick a name for your venv>
```

If you have multiple versions of Python already installed, you will need to specify a version explicitly. For example:
```
python3.7 -m venv <pick a name for your venv>
```

#### Enabling a `venv`:

```
. <name of your venv>/bin/activate
```

Alternatively, you may run:
```
source <name of your venv>/bin/activate
```

#### Disabling a `venv`:
```
deactivate
```

### Docker
Using Docker would be the preferred way to containerize this app, serving as a better alternative to `venv`s. However, I currently do not have Docker setup. This section is in my TODO list!

## Running the Server
At the moment, the server can only be run by executing the `app.py` file with your Python interpreter. Note that using `flask run` does not currently work!

### Setup with only Python 3.7 installed
If you are using Windows:
```
py app.py
```

If you are using unix:
```
python app.py
```

Note: if you wish to use a `venv`, make sure you activate it first before running the commands above!

### Setup with multiple versions of Python installed
If you are using Windows:
```
py -3.7 app.py
```

If you are using unix:
```
python3.7 app.py
```
Note: if you wish to use a `venv`, make sure you activate it first before running the commands above!

### Localhost
Considering that the app is not yet deployed, the server will temporarily be hosted manually at `http://127.0.0.1:5000/`. This means that `quoi-react-app` is heavily dependent on this app being run at localhost.

### API Key
An access key is needed to use the Collins Dictionary API. For the time being, the only way to use the API key is to run the following:
```
export ACCESS_KEY=<access_key>
```

This might need to be run everytime a new session is created. This is a temporary workaround.
